README.md, before:

# F1-Blog

Live Version: [F1-Blog](https://f1-blog-project-4-e7ef4f08fdeb.herokuapp.com/)

Repository: [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog)


The app is developed by [Jack Evans](https://github.com/Jackevans47).


<img width="1374" alt="home" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/237db377-683f-483d-a760-cf05ae06c2f2">


## User Experience Design

### Strategy

Developed for enthusiasts for F1, this app was designed to allow users to browse and stay up to date with news inside the world of F1. This was achieved by allowing users to easily navigate through the app, be able to create an account and comment on blog posts. Users are able to like comments that other users have posted on blogs.

### Target Audience

The app was developed for anyone wanting to stay up to date with F1 news. 
  * Anyone can create an account to comment on  log posts.
  * Only members with accounts can log in to comment.
  * Members can also like other members comments.


### User Stories

#### **First Time Visitor Goals**

| Issue ID    | User Story |
|-------------|-------------|
|[#1](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/1)| As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to register my account, so that I can learn the benefits of the app as a user.|
|[#2](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/3)|As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate through the app, so that I can find the content.|
|[#3](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/11)|As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to find the app useful, so that it encourages me to return to the app.|



#### **Frequent Visitor Goals**

| Issue ID    | User Story |
|-------------|-------------|
|[#4](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/4)|As a Frequent User, I want to be able to log in to my account, so that I can have an account.|
|[#5](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/2)|As a Frequent User, I want to be able to easily log in and log out, so that I can access my personal account with ease.|
|[#6](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/6)|As a Frequent User, I can be able to change my password, so that I can keep my account safe in case my password becomes public.|
|[#7](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/10)|As a frequent user, i want to be able to edit my profile.
|[#8](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/7)| As a frequent user, i want to be able to comment on blog posts.
|[#9]( https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/8)| As a frequent user, i want to be able to view comments made on a blog post.
|[#10](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/9)| As a frequent user, i want to be able to modify or delete my comments.







### Wireframes

- [Desktop Wireframes]


- ![About desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31810ccc-bcfd-4ff1-86ac-9fc829adb906)

- ![Edit profile desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6762afff-7308-44ef-86dd-e28e45c3c0ce)

- ![Home desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/36e858ba-ac0a-4beb-b468-7323d29bba10)

- ![Log in desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7b9b853-67ef-421d-bf92-83642d8ba320)

<img width="1220" alt="Sign up page desktop" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5bbc6c04-944a-4b1f-a567-dd44740b59cb">

---

- [Tablet Wireframes]
![About tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e8e20a3-26cb-4fd6-8cbd-a000425822a4)

- ![Edit profile tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8351709b-6954-493a-a61b-33a703869188)
- ![Home tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/65f58469-d2d6-45e4-b695-f82a539110d7)
- ![Log in tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7bbd5cb-5709-4820-bb5e-bea332ae9370)
- ![Sign up tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc555956-ea9a-4204-8a78-580370a6d4ea)


---

- [Mobile Wireframes]
- ![About mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f534f57b-49fb-46af-a417-ec0bbedfe1d7)
- ![Edit profile mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6decd538-9556-4624-b50b-6f05877b6965)
- ![Log in mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2feb1854-e026-4bfd-b00d-c49fed0ae3fb)
- ![Home mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0207e20d-8072-4a9a-bee2-6673fb06a1b7)


---


## Technologies used

- ### Languages:
    
    + [Python 3.8.5](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-385/): the primary language used to develop the server-side of the website.
    + [JS](https://www.javascript.com/): the primary language used to develop interactive components of the website.
    + [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML): the markup language used to create the website.
    + [CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/css): the styling language used to style the website.

- ### Frameworks and libraries:

    + [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/): python framework used to create all the logic.
    + [jQuery](https://jquery.com/): was used to control click events and sending AJAX requests.
    + [jQuery User Interface](https://jqueryui.com/) was used to create interactive elements.

- ### Databases:

    + [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/): was used as a development database.
    + [PostgreSQL](https://dbs.ci-dbs.net/): the database used to store all the data provided by code institute.

- ### Other tools:

    + [Git](https://git-scm.com/): the version control system used to manage the code.
    + [Pip3](https://pypi.org/project/pip/): the package manager used to install the dependencies.
    + [Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/): the webserver used to run the website.
    + [Django-allauth](https://django-allauth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): the authentication library used to create the user accounts.
    + [Django-crispy-forms](https://django-cryptography.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): was used to control the rendering behavior of Django forms.
    + [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com): the cloud platform used to host the website.
    + [GitHub](https://github.com/): used to host the website's source code.
    + [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/): the IDE used to develop the website.
    + [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/open/): was used to debug the website.
    + [Draw.io](https://www.lucidchart.com/) was used to make a flowchart for the README file.
    + [W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org/): was used to validate HTML5 code for the website.
    + [W3C CSS validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/): was used to validate CSS code for the website.
    + [JShint](https://jshint.com/): was used to validate JS code for the website.
    + [PEP8](https://pep8.org/): was used to validate Python code for the website.

---

### Entity-Relationship Diagram

* The ERD was created using [Draw.io](https://www.lucidchart.com/).

- [Database Scheme](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e463ebac-acc8-4de5-81a6-f252f07aeb39)



### Data Modeling

1. **Post**



| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Title         | title         | CharField     |  max_length=200, unique=True  |
| Slug          | slug          | SlugField     | max_length=200, unique=True   |
| Author        | author        | ForeignKey    | User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="blog_posts"   |
| featured_image| featured_image|CloudinaryField| "image", default="placeholder"   |
| content       | content       | TextField     |     ()    |
| created_on    | created_on    | DateTimeField | "image", auto_now_add=True|
| status        | status        | IntegerField  | choices=STATUS, default=0  |
| excerpt       | excerpt       | TextField     | blank=True  |
| updated_on    | updated_on    | DateTimeField  | auto_now=True |



2. **Comment**

| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Post          | post          | ForeignKey    |   Post, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="comments"  |
| Author        | author        | ForeignKey    |  User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="commenter"  |
| Body          | body          | TextField     |  ()  |
| Approved      | approved      | BooleanField  |  default=False  |
| created_on    | created_on    | DateTimeField |  auto_now_add=True  |


3. **Like**


| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| User          | user          | ForeignKey    |   User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="likes"  |
| Comment        | comment        | ForeignKey    |  Comment, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="likes"  |



4. **About**

| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Title          | title          | CharField|   max_length=200  |
| profile_image        | profile_image        | CloudinaryField    |  "image", default="placeholder"  |
| updated_on          | updated_on          | TextField     |  ()  |
| Approved      | approved      | DateTimeField  |  auto_now=True |
| content    | content    | TextField |  ()  |



---

## Colour Scheme


The color scheme of the application is based on the bold colors:

-  Plain white was used as the background colour.

- #188181 was used for the sign in/out, submit, edit and like button.

![submit, like, edit, sign in:out](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c36cc25b-d405-4abf-8f37-970cc6eab707)

- #445261 was used for the footer and banner on blog posts.

![blog post and footer](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d19597f1-b049-4bf2-bd44-ed0e728296c5)

- #E84610 was used for the delete button.

![delete](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3c4ab554-aad9-45d0-8a12-775dee2bb5c8)


---

## Deployment


- The app was deployed to [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com).

- The app can be reached by the [link](https://f1-blog-project-4-e7ef4f08fdeb.herokuapp.com/).


---

## Credits

- [GitHub](https://github.com/) for giving the idea of the project's design.
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) for the framework.
- [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com): for the free hosting of the website.
- [PostgreSQL](https://dbs.ci-dbs.net/): for the database used to store all the data provided by code institute.
- [Font awesome](https://fontawesome.com/): for the free access to icons.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/): for the free hosting of the website.
- [jQuery](https://jquery.com/): for providing varieties of tools to make standard HTML code look appealing.
- [Codemy.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-PB-HMFmdo): for providing a free video to help impliment features to the app.
- [Responsive Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/responsive-viewer/inmopeiepgfljkpkidclfgbgbmfcennb/related?hl=en): for providing a free platform to test website responsiveness


---

## Acknowledgements

[Iuliia Konovalova](https://github.com/IuliiaKonovalova)

I am grateful to my mentor Iuliia Konovalova for her guidance and helpful feedback!

---

Commit message:

Add link for deployment.md

README.md, after:

# F1-Blog

Live Version: [F1-Blog](https://f1-blog-project-4-e7ef4f08fdeb.herokuapp.com/)

Repository: [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog)


The app is developed by [Jack Evans](https://github.com/Jackevans47).


<img width="1374" alt="home" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/237db377-683f-483d-a760-cf05ae06c2f2">


## User Experience Design

### Strategy

Developed for enthusiasts for F1, this app was designed to allow users to browse and stay up to date with news inside the world of F1. This was achieved by allowing users to easily navigate through the app, be able to create an account and comment on blog posts. Users are able to like comments that other users have posted on blogs.

### Target Audience

The app was developed for anyone wanting to stay up to date with F1 news. 
  * Anyone can create an account to comment on  log posts.
  * Only members with accounts can log in to comment.
  * Members can also like other members comments.


### User Stories

#### **First Time Visitor Goals**

| Issue ID    | User Story |
|-------------|-------------|
|[#1](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/1)| As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to register my account, so that I can learn the benefits of the app as a user.|
|[#2](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/3)|As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to easily navigate through the app, so that I can find the content.|
|[#3](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/11)|As a First Time Visitor, I want to be able to find the app useful, so that it encourages me to return to the app.|



#### **Frequent Visitor Goals**

| Issue ID    | User Story |
|-------------|-------------|
|[#4](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/4)|As a Frequent User, I want to be able to log in to my account, so that I can have an account.|
|[#5](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/2)|As a Frequent User, I want to be able to easily log in and log out, so that I can access my personal account with ease.|
|[#6](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/6)|As a Frequent User, I can be able to change my password, so that I can keep my account safe in case my password becomes public.|
|[#7](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/10)|As a frequent user, i want to be able to edit my profile.
|[#8](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/7)| As a frequent user, i want to be able to comment on blog posts.
|[#9]( https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/8)| As a frequent user, i want to be able to view comments made on a blog post.
|[#10](https://github.com/Jackevans47/f1-blog/issues/9)| As a frequent user, i want to be able to modify or delete my comments.







### Wireframes

- [Desktop Wireframes]


- ![About desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/31810ccc-bcfd-4ff1-86ac-9fc829adb906)

- ![Edit profile desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6762afff-7308-44ef-86dd-e28e45c3c0ce)

- ![Home desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/36e858ba-ac0a-4beb-b468-7323d29bba10)

- ![Log in desktop](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7b9b853-67ef-421d-bf92-83642d8ba320)

<img width="1220" alt="Sign up page desktop" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5bbc6c04-944a-4b1f-a567-dd44740b59cb">

---

- [Tablet Wireframes]
![About tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e8e20a3-26cb-4fd6-8cbd-a000425822a4)

- ![Edit profile tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8351709b-6954-493a-a61b-33a703869188)
- ![Home tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/65f58469-d2d6-45e4-b695-f82a539110d7)
- ![Log in tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f7bbd5cb-5709-4820-bb5e-bea332ae9370)
- ![Sign up tablet](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fc555956-ea9a-4204-8a78-580370a6d4ea)


---

- [Mobile Wireframes]
- ![About mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f534f57b-49fb-46af-a417-ec0bbedfe1d7)
- ![Edit profile mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6decd538-9556-4624-b50b-6f05877b6965)
- ![Log in mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2feb1854-e026-4bfd-b00d-c49fed0ae3fb)
- ![Home mobile](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0207e20d-8072-4a9a-bee2-6673fb06a1b7)


---


## Technologies used

- ### Languages:
    
    + [Python 3.8.5](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-385/): the primary language used to develop the server-side of the website.
    + [JS](https://www.javascript.com/): the primary language used to develop interactive components of the website.
    + [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML): the markup language used to create the website.
    + [CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/css): the styling language used to style the website.

- ### Frameworks and libraries:

    + [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/): python framework used to create all the logic.
    + [jQuery](https://jquery.com/): was used to control click events and sending AJAX requests.
    + [jQuery User Interface](https://jqueryui.com/) was used to create interactive elements.

- ### Databases:

    + [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/): was used as a development database.
    + [PostgreSQL](https://dbs.ci-dbs.net/): the database used to store all the data provided by code institute.

- ### Other tools:

    + [Git](https://git-scm.com/): the version control system used to manage the code.
    + [Pip3](https://pypi.org/project/pip/): the package manager used to install the dependencies.
    + [Gunicorn](https://gunicorn.org/): the webserver used to run the website.
    + [Django-allauth](https://django-allauth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): the authentication library used to create the user accounts.
    + [Django-crispy-forms](https://django-cryptography.readthedocs.io/en/latest/): was used to control the rendering behavior of Django forms.
    + [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com): the cloud platform used to host the website.
    + [GitHub](https://github.com/): used to host the website's source code.
    + [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/): the IDE used to develop the website.
    + [Chrome DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/open/): was used to debug the website.
    + [Draw.io](https://www.lucidchart.com/) was used to make a flowchart for the README file.
    + [W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org/): was used to validate HTML5 code for the website.
    + [W3C CSS validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/): was used to validate CSS code for the website.
    + [JShint](https://jshint.com/): was used to validate JS code for the website.
    + [PEP8](https://pep8.org/): was used to validate Python code for the website.

---

### Entity-Relationship Diagram

* The ERD was created using [Draw.io](https://www.lucidchart.com/).

- [Database Scheme](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e463ebac-acc8-4de5-81a6-f252f07aeb39)



### Data Modeling

1. **Post**



| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Title         | title         | CharField     |  max_length=200, unique=True  |
| Slug          | slug          | SlugField     | max_length=200, unique=True   |
| Author        | author        | ForeignKey    | User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="blog_posts"   |
| featured_image| featured_image|CloudinaryField| "image", default="placeholder"   |
| content       | content       | TextField     |     ()    |
| created_on    | created_on    | DateTimeField | "image", auto_now_add=True|
| status        | status        | IntegerField  | choices=STATUS, default=0  |
| excerpt       | excerpt       | TextField     | blank=True  |
| updated_on    | updated_on    | DateTimeField  | auto_now=True |



2. **Comment**

| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Post          | post          | ForeignKey    |   Post, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="comments"  |
| Author        | author        | ForeignKey    |  User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="commenter"  |
| Body          | body          | TextField     |  ()  |
| Approved      | approved      | BooleanField  |  default=False  |
| created_on    | created_on    | DateTimeField |  auto_now_add=True  |


3. **Like**


| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| User          | user          | ForeignKey    |   User, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="likes"  |
| Comment        | comment        | ForeignKey    |  Comment, on_delete=models.CASCADE, related_name="likes"  |



4. **About**

| Name          | Database Key  | Field Type    | Validation |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
| Title          | title          | CharField|   max_length=200  |
| profile_image        | profile_image        | CloudinaryField    |  "image", default="placeholder"  |
| updated_on          | updated_on          | TextField     |  ()  |
| Approved      | approved      | DateTimeField  |  auto_now=True |
| content    | content    | TextField |  ()  |



---

## Colour Scheme


The color scheme of the application is based on the bold colors:

-  Plain white was used as the background colour.

- #188181 was used for the sign in/out, submit, edit and like button.

![submit, like, edit, sign in:out](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c36cc25b-d405-4abf-8f37-970cc6eab707)

- #445261 was used for the footer and banner on blog posts.

![blog post and footer](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d19597f1-b049-4bf2-bd44-ed0e728296c5)

- #E84610 was used for the delete button.

![delete](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3c4ab554-aad9-45d0-8a12-775dee2bb5c8)


---

## Deployment


- The app was deployed to [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com).

- The app can be reached by the [link](https://f1-blog-project-4-e7ef4f08fdeb.herokuapp.com/).

- Please refer to the [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) file for all deployment-related documentation.


---

## Credits

- [GitHub](https://github.com/) for giving the idea of the project's design.
- [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) for the framework.
- [Heroku](https://dashboard.heroku.com): for the free hosting of the website.
- [PostgreSQL](https://dbs.ci-dbs.net/): for the database used to store all the data provided by code institute.
- [Font awesome](https://fontawesome.com/): for the free access to icons.
- [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/): for the free hosting of the website.
- [jQuery](https://jquery.com/): for providing varieties of tools to make standard HTML code look appealing.
- [Codemy.com](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-PB-HMFmdo): for providing a free video to help impliment features to the app.
- [Responsive Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/responsive-viewer/inmopeiepgfljkpkidclfgbgbmfcennb/related?hl=en): for providing a free platform to test website responsiveness


---

## Acknowledgements

[Iuliia Konovalova](https://github.com/IuliiaKonovalova)

I am grateful to my mentor Iuliia Konovalova for her guidance and helpful feedback!

---
